.\" 
.\"									
.\"	Copyright (c) 1987,1988,1989,1990,1991,1992   AT&T		
.\"			All Rights Reserved				
.\"									
.\"	  THIS IS UNPUBLISHED PROPRIETARY SOURCE CODE OF AT&T.		
.\"	    The copyright notice above does not evidence any		
.\"	   actual or intended publication of such source code.		
.\"									
.\" 
.ds ZZ APPLICATION DEVELOPMENT PACKAGE
.TH GLOBALS 3R
.XE "physical"
.XE "display"
.XE "Drect"
.XE "Jrect"
.XE "mouse"
.XE "PtCurrent"
.SH NAME
physical, display, Drect, Jrect, PtCurrent, mouse \- globals describing display and mouse
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B Bitmap physical;
.PP
.B Bitmap display;
.PP
.B Rectangle Drect;
.PP
.B Rectangle Jrect;
.PP
.B Point PtCurrent;
.PP
.B #define XMAX  800
.br
.B #define YMAX 1024
.PP
.B struct Mouse {
.RS 3
.br
.B        Point xy;
.br
.B        Point jxy;
.br
.B        int   buttons;
.br
.RE
.B } mouse;
.SH DESCRIPTION
Each global is defined when
.B dmd.h
is included.
One should not include these definitions in their source code.
.PP
The global
.I physical
is a Bitmap describing the entire screen display in screen coordinates.
.PP
The global
.I display
is the Bitmap describing an individual layer in screen coordinates.
.PP
The global
.I Drect
is a Rectangle
defining, in screen coordinates,
the display area available to the program.
It is not
.I display.rect,
which includes the border around each layer in
.I layers.
.PP
The global
.I Jrect
is the Rectangle
{ 0, 0, \fIXMAX\fR, \fIYMAX\fR }
.PP
The global
.I PtCurrent
is the current Point in layer coordinates which the j-routines reference and update.
.PP
The values
.I XMAX
and
.I YMAX
define the maximum x and y coordinates of the \s-1DMD\s+1 screen.
.PP
The global
.I mouse
is a location containing the current mouse coordinates
and button states.
The Point
.I xy
is in screen coordinates;
.I jxy
is in layer coordinates.
The
.I buttons
are most easily interpreted using the button macros.
.SH SEE ALSO
buttons(3R), structures(3R).
