.\" 
.\"									
.\"	Copyright (c) 1987,1988,1989,1990,1991,1992   AT&T		
.\"			All Rights Reserved				
.\"									
.\"	  THIS IS UNPUBLISHED PROPRIETARY SOURCE CODE OF AT&T.		
.\"	    The copyright notice above does not evidence any		
.\"	   actual or intended publication of such source code.		
.\"									
.\" 
.ds ZZ APPLICATION DEVELOPMENT PACKAGE
.TH HAGENT 3H
.XE "openagent()"
.XE "New()"
.XE "Runlayer()"
.XE "Current()"
.XE "Delete()"
.XE "Top()"
.XE "Bottom()"
.XE "Move()"
.XE "Reshape()"
.XE "Exit()"
.XE "Newlayer()"
.XE "openchan()"
.SH NAME
openagent, New, Runlayer, Current, Delete, Top, Bottom, Move, Reshape, Exit, Newlayer, openchan \- \s-1UNIX\s+1 system host commands to perform DMD functions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B int	cntlfd, fd;
.br
.B int	chan;
.br
.B int	origin.x, origin.y, corner.x, corner.y;
.br
.B char	*command;
.PP
.B cntlfd \= openagent ( )
.PP
.B "chan \= New (cntlfd, origin.x, origin.y, corner.x, corner.y)"
.PP
.B Runlayer (chan, command)
.PP
.B Current (cntlfd, chan)
.PP
.B Delete (cntlfd, chan)
.PP
.B Top (cntlfd, chan)
.PP
.B Bottom (cntlfd, chan)
.PP
.B Move (cntlfd, chan, origin.x, origin.y)
.PP
.B Reshape (cntlfd, chan, origin.x, origin.y, corner.x, corner.y)
.PP
.B Exit (cntlfd)
.PP
.B "chan \= Newlayer (cntlfd, origin.x, origin.y, corner.x, corner.y)"
.PP
.B fd \= openchan (chan)
.SH DESCRIPTION
These routines allow a \s-1UNIX\s+1 system host program to
issue all the commands available in the
``button 3'' menu of \fIlayers\fR.
For those routines that pass layer rectangle coordinates, it should
be noted that the minimum layer size is 32 by 32 pixels.
.PP
The
.I openagent
function opens the DMD control channel. Upon successful completion,
.I openagent
returns a file descriptor that is used
as input to all routines except
.IR openchan .
Otherwise, the EOF value is returned.
.PP
The
.I New
function
creates a new layer with a separate shell.
The
.IR origin.x ,
.IR origin.y ,
.IR corner.x ,
and
.I corner.y
arguments
are the coordinates of the layer rectangle.
If all the coordinate arguments are 0,
the sweep cursor is displayed and the user is allowed to
sweep out the layer's rectangle.
The layer appears on top
of any overlapping layers.
The layer is ``not'' made current (i.e., the keyboard
is not attached to the new layer).
Upon successful completion,
.I New
returns the DMD channel associated with the layer.
Otherwise, the EOF value is returned.
.PP
The
.I Runlayer
function
runs
the argument
.I command
in the layer associated with the channel
argument
.IR chan .
The layer must be created with the
.I New
function.
.PP
The
.I Current
function
makes the layer associated with the channel
argument
.I chan
current (i.e., attached to the keyboard).
.PP
The
.I Delete
function
deletes the layer associated with the channel
argument
.I chan
and kills all host processes associated with the layer.
.PP
The
.I Top
function
makes the layer associated with the channel
argument
.I chan
appear on top of all overlapping layers.
.PP
The
.I Bottom
function
puts the layer associated with the channel
argument
.I chan
under all overlapping layers.
.PP
The
.I Move
function
moves the layer associated with the channel
argument
.I chan
from its current screen location to a new screen location at the origin
point
.RI ( origin.x , " origin.y" ).
The size and contents of the layer are maintained. 
.PP
The
.I Reshape
function
reshapes the layer associated with the channel
argument
.IR chan .
The
arguments
.IR origin.x ,
.IR origin.y ,
.IR corner.x ,
and
.I corner.y
are the new coordinates of the layer rectangle.
If all the coordinate arguments are 0,
the sweep cursor is displayed and the user is allowed to
sweep out the layer's rectangle.
The contents of the layer will not be maintained.
.PP
The
.I Exit
function
exits the
layers
program and kills all processes associated with
layers.
.PP
The
.I Newlayer
function
creates a new layer.
The
arguments
.IR origin.x ,
.IR origin.y ,
.IR corner.x ,
and
.I corner.y
are the coordinates of the layer rectangle.
If all the coordinate arguments are 0,
the sweep cursor is displayed and the user is allowed to
sweep out the layer's rectangle.
The layer appears on top
of any overlapping layers.
The layer is ``not'' made current (i.e., the keyboard
is not attached to the new layer).
Upon successful completion,
.I Newlayer
returns the DMD channel associated with the layer.
Otherwise, the EOF value is returned.
.PP
The
.I openchan
function
opens the channel argument
.I chan
which is obtained from the
.I New
or
.I Newlayer
function.
Upon successful completion,
.I openchan
returns a file descriptor that can be used
as input to
.IR write (2).
Otherwise, the EOF value is returned.
.SH NOTES
The file descriptors obtained from the
.I openagent
and
.I openchan
functions
may be closed using
.IR close (2).
.SH RETURN VALUE
Upon successful completion,
all routines except
.IR openagent ,
.IR openchan ,
.IR New ,
and
.I Newlayer
return a value of 0. 
If an error occurs, a value of 1 is returned.
.SH SEE ALSO
jagent(7H), agent(3R).
.br
write(2), close(2) in the \fI\s-1UNIX\s+1 System V Programmer Reference Manual\fR.
