.\" 
.\"									
.\"	Copyright (c) 1987,1988,1989,1990,1991,1992   AT&T		
.\"			All Rights Reserved				
.\"									
.\"	  THIS IS UNPUBLISHED PROPRIETARY SOURCE CODE OF AT&T.		
.\"	    The copyright notice above does not evidence any		
.\"	   actual or intended publication of such source code.		
.\"									
.\" 
.ds ZZ APPLICATION DEVELOPMENT PACKAGE
.TH INTEGER 3R
.XE "abs()"
.XE "ceil()"
.XE "floor()"
.XE "min()"
.XE "max()"
.SH NAME
abs, ceil, floor, min, max \- integer functions
.XE "abs,"
.XE "abs,"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B int abs (b) 
.PP
.B short ceil (a, b)
.PP
.B short floor (a, b)
.PP
.B int min (b, c)
.PP
.B int max (b, c)
.PP
.B long a;
.br
.B int b, c;
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I abs
function
returns the absolute value of its integer operand.
.PP
The
.I ceil
function
returns the smallest short integer which multiplied by
.IR b,
is not lesser than
.I a. 
.PP
The
.I floor
function
returns the largest short integer which multiplied by
.I b,
is not greater than
.I a. 
.PP
For both
.I ceil
and
.I floor
if
.I b
is equal to 0 or 1,
the long integer
.I a
is truncated to a short and returned.
.PP
The
.I min
function
returns the minimum of the two integers.
.PP
The
.I max
function
returns the maximum of the two integers.
.SH CAVEAT
The functions
.I ceil
and
.I floor
are not the same as the \s-1UNIX\s+1 system functions of the same name.
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
.nf
abs (100) and abs (\-100) both equal 100.
.PP
ceil (7, 2)  and  ceil (10, 3) both equal 4.
.PP
floor (9, 2)  and  floor (13, 3) both equal 4.
.PP
min (32, 16) equals 16.
.PP
max (32, 14) equals 32.
.fi
