.\" 
.\"									
.\"	Copyright (c) 1987,1988,1989,1990,1991,1992   AT&T		
.\"			All Rights Reserved				
.\"									
.\"	  THIS IS UNPUBLISHED PROPRIETARY SOURCE CODE OF AT&T.		
.\"	    The copyright notice above does not evidence any		
.\"	   actual or intended publication of such source code.		
.\"									
.\" 
.ds ZZ APPLICATION DEVELOPMENT PACKAGE
.TH QSORT 3R
.XE "qsort()"
.SH NAME
qsort \- quick sort
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
void qsort ((char *) base, nel, sizeof (*base), compar) 
.sp
unsigned int nel;
.br
int (*compar)( );
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I qsort
function
is an implementation of the \s-1UNIX\s+1 system quick-sort algorithm.
It sorts a table of data in place.
.PP
The
.I base
points to the element at the base of the table. 
The pointer to the base of the table should be of type pointer-to-element,
and cast to type pointer-to-character.
.PP
The
.I nel
argument
is the number of elements in the table.
.PP
The
.I compar
element
is the name of the comparison function which is called with two arguments
that point to the elements being compared.
It need not compare every byte, so arbitrary data
may be contained in the elements in addition to the values being compared.
The function must return an integer less than, equal to, or greater
than zero based on whether the first argument is to be considered less than,
equal to, or greater than the second.
.SH EXAMPLE
The following routine will accept Points designated by
clicking button 1 and then sort the array based on \f2x\f1 and \f2y\f1 coordinate values.
.PP
.RS 3
.nf
.ft CM
#include <dmd.h>

Point p[100];

ptcompar(p, q)
Point *p, *q;
{
	if ( p->y < q->y ) return -1;
	if ( p->y == q->y ){
		if ( p->x == q->x ) return 0;
		if ( p->x < q->x ) return -1;
		return 1;
	}
	return 1;
}
	
Point *
sortpoints()
{
	int i;

	request (MOUSE|KBD);
	for( i = 0; i < 100;){
		wait (MOUSE);
		if( button1 () ){
			p[i++] = mouse.xy;
			sleep (10);
			continue;
		}
		if( button3 () ) break;
	}
	qsort ((char *)p, i, sizeof(Point),
               ptcompar);
	return p;
}
\fR
.fi
.RE
