.\" 
.\"									
.\"	Copyright (c) 1987,1988,1989,1990,1991,1992   AT&T		
.\"			All Rights Reserved				
.\"									
.\"	  THIS IS UNPUBLISHED PROPRIETARY SOURCE CODE OF AT&T.		
.\"	    The copyright notice above does not evidence any		
.\"	   actual or intended publication of such source code.		
.\"									
.\" 
.ds ZZ APPLICATION DEVELOPMENT PACKAGE
.TH STRING 3R
.XE "string()"
.XE "defont"
.SH NAME  
string, defont \- draw string in bitmap
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3
#include <font.h>
.sp
Point string (ft, s, b, p, f)
.sp
Font *ft; 
.br 
char *s;
.br 
Bitmap *b;
.br 
Point p;
.br 
Code f;
.sp
Font defont; \f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I string
function
draws the null-terminated string
.I s
using characters from Font
.I ft
in Bitmap
.I b
at Point
.I p
with function Code
.IR f .
The return value is the location of the first character after
.IR s ,
passed to another call to string.
The two strings will be concatenated.
.PP
The characters are drawn such that the origin
point of the bounding rectangle of a maximum height character lies at
.IR p .
Therefore, a character drawn on the screen at (0, 0)
will occupy the upper-leftmost character position on the screen.
.PP
The
.I string
function
draws characters as they are in the font.
No special action is taken for control characters such as tabs or newlines.
.PP
The global
.I defont
is predefined, and is the name of the standard font (not a pointer to it).
.SH SEE ALSO
jstring(3R), structures(3R).
.SH EXAMPLE
Following is an example for the use of \f2string\f1.
.bp
Here is a code fragment that prints "hello world"
in a large font.
.PP
.RS 3
.nf
.ft CM
#include <dmd.h>
#include <font.h>

       \^.
       \^.
       \^.


Font *f;
Point p;

p = add (Drect.origin, Pt(4,4));
if( (f = getfont
	("/usr/dmd/font/HI.24")) == 0)
        exit();
string (f, "hello world",
	&display, p, F_XOR);

ffree (f);
\fR
.fi
.RE
