.\" 
.\"									
.\"	Copyright (c) 1987,1988,1989,1990,1991,1992   AT&T		
.\"			All Rights Reserved				
.\"									
.\"	  THIS IS UNPUBLISHED PROPRIETARY SOURCE CODE OF AT&T.		
.\"	    The copyright notice above does not evidence any		
.\"	   actual or intended publication of such source code.		
.\"									
.\" 
.ds N \fIWE\fR-32001
.ds p dmd
.ds P DMD
.ds l libc.a
.SA 1
.ds ZZ CORE PACKAGE
.TH \*PA.OUT 4 
.SH NAME
\*pa.out \- \*N object file format
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I \*pa.out
file
is the output file from
the assembler
.I m32as (1)
and
the link editor
.IR m32ld (1L).
.if !'\*p'' \{\
The resultant file can be executed on the target machine
if no errors or unresolved references were found.
In no case is the file given \s-1UNIX\s+1 system execute permissions
because the object code is for the target machine
not the host machine on which the file was created.
\}
.if '\*p'' \{\
Both programs will make
.B \*pa.out
executable if there were no errors in assembling or linking,
and no unresolved external references.
\}
.PP
A \*N object file supports
user-defined sections and contains extensive
information for symbolic software testing.
The overall structure of a \*N object file is given below.
.if !'\*p'' \{\
(An optional part of the common object file is not
present in \*N.)\ 
\}
.sp
.nf
.RS 10
File header.
.if '\*p'' \s-1UNIX\s+1 system header.
.if '\*p'm32' \s-1UNIX\s+1 system header.
Section 1 header.
\&...
Section n header.
Section 1 data.
\&...
Section n data.
Section 1 relocation.
\&...
Section n relocation.
Section 1 line numbers.
\&...
Section n line numbers.
Symbol table.
.sp
.fi
.RE
.PP
.RI See " filehdr" (5), " scnhdr" (5),
.IR reloc (5), " linenum" "(5), and " syms (5)
for descriptions of the individual parts.
Every section created by
.I \*pas
.ds E4 a multiple of four
.if '\*p'b16' .ds E4 an even
.if '\*p'x86' .ds E4 an even
contains \*(E4 number of bytes;
directives to
.I \*pld
can create a section with an odd number of bytes.
.PP
A set of functions exist to manipulate \*N object files.
.RI "See " ldfcn (3)
and its associated references for more information.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
dmdcc(1), m32as(1), m32ld(1).
.br
ldfcn(3),
filehdr(5), linenum(5), reloc(5), scnhdr(5), syms(5) in the
\f2\s-1UNIX\s+1 System V Programmer Reference Manual\f1.
