.\" 
.\"									
.\"	Copyright (c) 1987,1988,1989,1990,1991,1992   AT&T		
.\"			All Rights Reserved				
.\"									
.\"	  THIS IS UNPUBLISHED PROPRIETARY SOURCE CODE OF AT&T.		
.\"	    The copyright notice above does not evidence any		
.\"	   actual or intended publication of such source code.		
.\"									
.\" 
.ds ZZ CORE PACKAGE
.TH DMDCAT 1
.SH NAME
dmdcat - send files to a printer used in conjunction with \f2dmdp\f1.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBdmdcat\fR [ \f3\-b\f1 ] [ file\&.\&.\&. ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I dmdcat
command is intended to be used
in conjunction with
.IR dmdp ,
in order to send files to a printer.
This
command will send data to a 5620 terminal preceded by a \fIPrinter On\fR
escape sequence and succeeded by a \fIPrinter Off\fR escape sequence.
The escape sequences sent are:
.RS 8
.sp
\fBPrinter On\fR  - ESC[?4i
.sp
\fBPrinter Off\fR - ESC[?9i
.RE
.sp
It is used in conjunction with the \f2host\f1 option of \f2dmdp\f1(1).
\f2Dmdcat\f1 will print the concatenation of files specified on it's
command line, or it's standard input if no files are specified.
.PP
\f2Dmdcat\f1 has one option \fB\-\fR, which will strip backspaces
from the output of \f2dmdcat\f1.
If backspaces would result in two or more characters appearing
in the same place, only the last character read will be output.
This means that the printed output will appear exactly as it
appears on the 5620 screen, without bold and underline.
This option is useful for printers which either cannot process
backspaces or are slow in processing backspaces.
.PP
To use
.I dmdcat
in conjunction
with
.IR dmdp ,
refer to
"The Host Option" section of
.IR dmdp (1).
First,
.I dmdp
must be running in another layer.
Select the host option of the
.I dmdp
menu and point to this layer.
Now,
.I dmdp
will capture the output from
.I dmdcat
and send the escape sequence to turn the printer off,
.I cat
the file to the printer,
and turn the printer off.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
\f2Dmdcat\f1 is a shell program which uses the \f2col\f1(1) command to
strip backspaces with the \-b option.
Col is not available on all \s-1UNIX\s+1
systems.
The \-b option will give 
an error message if it cannot locate the \f2col\f1 command.
.SH SEE ALSO
dmdp(1).
.br
cat(1),
col(1) in the
\f2\s-1UNIX\s+1 System V User Reference Manual\f1.
