.\" 
.\"									
.\"	Copyright (c) 1987,1988,1989,1990,1991,1992   AT&T		
.\"			All Rights Reserved				
.\"									
.\"	  THIS IS UNPUBLISHED PROPRIETARY SOURCE CODE OF AT&T.		
.\"	    The copyright notice above does not evidence any		
.\"	   actual or intended publication of such source code.		
.\"									
.\" 
.ds ZZ CORE PACKAGE
.ds ZZ APPLICATION DEVELOPMENT PACKAGE
.TH ICON 1
.SH NAME
icon \- interactive icon and picture drawer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B icon
[ \fB\-x\fR m ] [ \fB\-y\fR n ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I icon
utility
is a menu driven interactive icon and picture drawing program.
It runs under 
.I layers
using the "mouse" and keyboard for command and text entry.
The default \fIicon\fR display consists of a 50X50 cell grid in the lower right
hand corner of the layer in which
.I icon
was invoked.  By invoking \fIicon\fR with the \fB\-x\fR and \fB\-y\fR flags,
the grid size may be specified to be \fIm\fRX\fIn\fR, overriding the default.
Each cell in this grid corresponds to a single bit in the 
.I icon
being created or edited.
In the upper left hand corner of the layer,
an actual size view of the icon is displayed.
.TP 15
\f3Button 1\f1
Button 1 when depressed and held in draws a black square in the 
grid position pointed to by the mouse cursor.
.TP
\f3Button 2\f1
Button 2 when depressed and held in undraws any black square in the
grid position pointed to by the mouse cursor.
.TP
\f3Button 3\f1
Button 3 when depressed displays a menu of icons.
By moving the cursor (now a box) over the desired icon and releasing the
button, a command will be invoked.
If the button 3 command requires a section of the grid display to be
selected, hitting button 2 will format a 16x16 grid outline.
To specify other than this 16x16 grid outline,
hit button 3 and sweep out the rectangle you wish
the command to act on.
.SH COMMANDS
The command icons are described below from the upper left by rows
to the bottom right.
On the bottom row is a help command designated by the word "help".
.TP 25
\fBArrow\fR
move to another portion of the grid.
.TP
\fBCopier\fR
copy to another portion of the grid.
.TP
\fBBlack and white squares\fR
change lights to darks and darks
to lights (invert video).
.TP
\fBGarbage can\fR
erase.
.TP
\fBHorizontal wrap arrow\fR
flip on the x-axis.
.TP
\fBVertical wrap arrow\fR
flip on the y-axis.
.TP
\fBTo right and down arrow\fR
rotate 90 degrees clockwise.
.TP
\fBUp and to left arrow\fR
rotate 90 degrees counterclockwise.
.TP
\fBHorizontal lines\fR
shear along the x-axis.
.TP
\fBVertical lines\fR
shear along the y-axis.
.TP
\fBFour line sets\fR
stretch (expand).
.TP
\fBPinwheels\fR
take one pattern and make many copies of it.
.TP
\fBEyeglasses\fR
read an icon file.
.TP
\fBGrid\fR
draw a reference grid.
.TP
\fBMouse\fR
change current mouse cursor to icon.
.TP
\fBQuill pen\fR
write an icon file.
.TP
\fBGrid, arrow to grid\fR
bitblt operator.  
.TP
\fBHELP\fR
prints the help menu.
.TP
\fBSmoking gun\fR
exit the \fIicon\fR program.
.SH CURSOR ICONS
The following are status indicator icons that the mouse cursor changes to
under various conditions:
.TP 25
\fBAlarm clock\fR
wait.
.TP
\fBDead Mouse\fR
mouse inactive.
.TP
\fBDark square in stack\fR
menu on button 3.
.TP
\fBSquare with arrow\fR
sweep rectangle (button 3).
.TP
\fBDouble square with arrow\fR
sweep rectangle (button 3)
or get 16x16 grid frame (button 2).
.SH FILES
.ta \w'$DMD/icon/texture/*     'u
$DMD/lib/icon.m	terminal support program
.br
$DMD/icon/*	icons
.br
$DMD/icon/texture/*	textures
.br
$DMD/icon/texture16/*	texture16s
.SH SEE ALSO
layers(1).
.SH BUGS
Due to amountof available memory in the DMD, how many programs are currently
 executing in the DMD, and the size of the \f2icon\f1 grid, 
the terminal may lock after \f2icon is downloaded.

