.\"       Copyright (c) 1987 AT&T   
.\"       All Rights Reserved       
.\"
.\"       THIS IS UNPUBLISHED PROPRIETARY SOURCE CODE OF AT&T   
.\"       The copyright notice above does not evidence any     
.\"       actual or intended publication of such source code.  
.\"
.\"
.ds ZZ DEVELOPMENT PACKAGE
.if \nZ \{\
.TH XJX 1 EXPTOOLS\}
.if !\nZ \{\
.TH JX 1 TOOLCHEST\}
.SH NAME
jx \- standard I/O interpreter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B jx
[\fB\-Vdfnpz\fR ] [ \fB\-Z\fR n ] file
.br
[ command line arguments]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I jx
utility is a standard I/O interpreter for AT&T Dot-Mapped Display terminals (5620 DMD
and 630 MTG). It
downloads the program in
.I file
to the terminal
and runs it there, simulating most of the standard I/O library
functions.
This gives application programs downloaded into the terminal the ability
to perform operations such as file I/O to files resident on the host
computer, using the same interface as programs
written for execution on the host computer.
.PP
The jx utility calls 
either \fIxdmdld\fP or \fI32ld\fP
to do the download into the terminal. Therefore, the 
\fB-d\fP, \fB-p\fP, \fB-z\fP, \fB-f\fP, \fB-Z\fP, and \fB-n\fP 
options are available for use with \f2jx\f1 on the 630 MTG, and
the \fB-d\fP, \fB-p\fP, and \fB-z\fP options are available for use
with \fIjx\fP on the 5620 DMD.
.P
The \f2-V\f1 option causes \fIjx\fP to print a message that identifies
which version it is.
.PP
\fIStdin\fR directed to the host portion of \f2jx\f1,
either through the \f2jx\f1
command line or with the \fIpopen\fR function, is properly redirected.
Note that input from the keyboard is not translated to \fIstdin\fR
to the host portion of \f2jx\f1. Rather, programs wishing to read from the
keyboard should use \fIkbdchar\fR(3R).
.PP
.I Stdout
and \fIstderr\fR, written to by the below library functions,
will be stored in a buffer during execution.
After the terminal program has
been rebooted,
.I stdout
and
.I stdin
will be redirected to the terminal.
.PP
Programs intended for use by
.I jx
should include \f3<dmd.h>\f1 and <\f3dmdio.h\f1>
and call \fIexit\fR(3R) upon termination.  \fIExit\fR() returns control to
the shell and causes a reboot of
the default terminal emulator.
.PP
What follows is a list of
stdio library functions available under \fIjx\fR.  
These functions are called
from an application downloaded into the terminal
by \f2jx\f1. The \f2jx\f1 library routines in the terminal then
translate the call into a message which is sent to the host portion
of \f2jx\f1 for processing.
.sp
.TS
center;
l l l l.
getc	getchar	fgets	fflush
.sp
putc	putchar	puts	fputs
.sp
fopen	freopen	fclose	access
.sp
popen	pclose	fread	fwrite
.sp
printf	Printf	fprintf	Fprintf
.TE
.sp
The functions \fBfprintf\fP and \fBprintf\fP are stripped down versions of
those functions in UNIX System V.  The uppercase versions
(\fBFprintf\fP and \fBPrintf\fP) are identical.
Note, however, that these
functions are only available for the 630 MTG.   See printf(3L) for more
details.
.SH FILES
.if \nZ \{\
$TOOLS/lib/dmdtools/xsysint		host portion of \f2xjx\f1 after download is complete
.br
$DMD/lib/sysint			alternate location for host portion after download\}
.br
$HOME/.jxout			saved standard output
.br
$HOME/.jxerr			saved standard diagnostic output
.SH SEE ALSO
dmdld(1).
.br
exit(3R), kbdchar(3R), printf(3L) in the \fI630 MTG Software Reference Manual\fP.
.br
access(2),
fopen(3S),
fread(3S),
getc(3S),
popen(3S),
printf(3S),
putc(3S),
puts(3S) in the
\f2UNIX System V Programmer's Reference Manual\f1.
.SH WARNING
.P
Because keyboard data is not sent to the \f2stdin\f1 of the
host component of \f2jx\f1, applications running under \f2jx\f1 which read
from the \f2stdin\f1 will hang if their \f2stdin\f1 is not redirected.
.P
The \f2stdin\f1 can be redirected either from the command line or by
function calls inside the application process running on the
terminal.
.SH BUGS
.I Jx
does not work when su'ed to another user.
.P
.I Jx
does not work in the nonlayers environment.
.P
\fIJx\fR does not work with application cached with
\fBA_SHARED\fR, \fBA_BSS\fR or \fBA_DATA\fR.  (This bug applies only to the 630 MTG.)
.P
\fIStderr\fR is buffered. Use fflush (stderr) if this is a
problem.
.P
\fIgetc(), getchar(), putc()\fR, and \fIputchar()\fR are not
macros as described in \fIgetc(3S)\fR and \fIputc(3S)\fR.
.P
The \fIfopen()\fR routine does not support the following
modes: r+, w+, a+.
