.\" 
.\"									
.\"	Copyright (c) 1987,1988,1989,1990,1991,1992   AT&T		
.\"			All Rights Reserved				
.\"									
.\"	  THIS IS UNPUBLISHED PROPRIETARY SOURCE CODE OF AT&T.		
.\"	    The copyright notice above does not evidence any		
.\"	   actual or intended publication of such source code.		
.\"									
.\" 
.ds N \fIWE\fR-32001 processor module
.ds p m32
.ds P M32
.ds l libc.a
.SA 1
.if '\*p'' .nr C 1
.if '\*p'm32' .nr C 1
.ds ZZ APPLICATION DEVELOPMENT PACKAGE
.TH \*PAS 1
.SH NAME
\*pas \- \*N assembler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR \*pas
.RB "[" \-o " objfile]"
.if '\*p'x86' .RB \-x
.if '\*p'3b' .RB "[" \-Q "]"
.RB "[" \-n "]"
.RB "[" \-m "]"
.RB "[" \-V "]"
.if !\nC .RB "[" \-tv "]"
file-name
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.I \*pas
command
assembles the named file.
.if '\*p'b16' \{\
The output file is executable if no errors
occurred during the assembly, transfer vectors were not used,
and there are no unresolved external references.
\}
.PP
The following flags are recognized by the assembler 
and may be specified in any order:
.TP 10
.BI \-o " objfile"
Output of assembly is put in
.IR objfile .
By default, the output file name is formed by
removing the 
.B .s
suffix, if there is one, from the input file name
and appending a 
.B .o
suffix.
.if '\*p'x86' \{\
.TP 10
.B \-x
This
flag is
.I required
for all x86 files.
\}
.if '\*p'3b' \{
.TP 10
.B \-Q
Warns the user if a transfer vector operand is used
in any context other than a "call" instruction.
\}
.TP 10
.B \-n
Turns off long/short address optimization.
By default, address optimization takes place.
.TP 10
.B \-m
.ie '\*p'3b'  \{\
Inhibit the invocation of the
\}
.el Invoke the
.I m4
macro processor.
By default, 
.if !'\*p'3b' do not
invoke
.I m4
on the input to the assembler.
.TP 10
.B \-V
Causes the version number of the assembler being run
to be written on standard error.
.if !\nC \{\
.TP 10
.B \-tv
Causes the assembler to generate
transfer vector linkages for function calls.
By default, no transfer vectors are generated.
\}
.SH FILES
.RI /usr/tmp/\*pas[1-6] XXXXXX
temporary files
.SH "SEE ALSO"
dmdcc(1),
\*pld (1),
\*pnm(1),
\*pstrip(1).
.br
m4(1) in the
\f2\s-1UNIX\s+1 System V Programmer Reference Manual\f1.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
If the input file cannot be read,
the assembly will terminate with the message
"Unable to open input file".
If assembly errors are detected in the input file
the following information is written to standard error:
the input file name, line number where the error occurred
in the assembly code,
a (hopefully) descriptive message of the problem,
and, if the input file was produced by the C compiler \c
.RI "[see " \*pcc (1)]
the line number in the C program that generated
the erroneous code.
.SH WARNINGS
.PP
If the input file does not contain a 
.B .file
assembler directive then
the file name given by the assembler when an
error occurs is one of the temporary files.
.if !\nC \{
.PP
If the
.I m4
.RI "[see " m4 (1)]
macro processor is used then
.I m4
keywords cannot be used as symbols (variables, functions, labels)
in the input assembly file since
.I m4
cannot determine which are assembler symbols and 
which are real 
.I m4
macros.
\}
.SH BUGS
The
.if '\*p'b16' .B .even
.if '\*p'x86' .B .even
.if '\*p'3b' .B .align
.if '\*p'm32' .B .align
.if '\*p'' .B .align
assembler directive is not guaranteed to work
in the
.B .text
section when optimization is performed.
