.\" 
.\"									
.\"	Copyright (c) 1987,1988,1989,1990,1991,1992   AT&T		
.\"			All Rights Reserved				
.\"									
.\"	  THIS IS UNPUBLISHED PROPRIETARY SOURCE CODE OF AT&T.		
.\"	    The copyright notice above does not evidence any		
.\"	   actual or intended publication of such source code.		
.\"									
.\" 
.SA 1
.ds N \fIWE\fR-32001 processor module
.ds p m32
.ds P m32
.ds l libc.a
.ds ZZ APPLICATION DEVELOPMENT PACKAGE
.TH M32CONV 1
.SH NAME
\*pconv \- \*N Software Generation System (SGS) object file converter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*pconv
[ - ] [ -p ] [ -s ] -t target files
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I \*pconv
command
converts \*N object files from their current format to the format
of the
.I target
machine.
The converted file is written to
file\c
.I .v\c
\&.
.PP
Command line options are:
.PP
.TP 12
.BR \-
indicates 
.I files
should be read from
.I stdin\c
\&.
.PP
.TP 12
.BR \-p
makes convert produce the output file in the portable archive format
(if the input file is an archive in either the old or new format).
Otherwise, all archives will be produced in the old format.
.PP
.TP 12
.BR \-s
causes \f2m32pconv\f1 to function exactly as 3bswab, i.e. to "preswab"
all characters in the object file.  This is useful only for AT&T 3B20 computer
object files which are to be "swab-dumped" from a DEC machine
to a 3B20 computer.
.PP
.TP 12
.BR \-t " target"
indicates the machine (target) to which the object file is being shipped.  This
may be another host or a target machine.  Legal values for
.B target
are: pdp, vax, ibm, i80, x86, b16, n3b and m32.
.PP
The
\*Pconv utility can be used to convert all object files in common object file
format, not only \*N object files. It can be used on either
the source ("sending") or target ("receiving") machine.
.PP
The
\*Pconv utility is meant to ease the problems created
by a multi-host cross-compilation development environment. \*Pconv is best
used within a procedure for shipping object files from one machine to
another.
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
All intended to be self-explanatory. Fatal diagnostics on the command
lines cause termination. Fatal diagnostics on an input file cause the
program to continue to the next input file.
.SH "BUGS"
Special applications must compile \f2m32conv\f1 differently
if it is to convert special object files, e.g., products of
.I ldp\c
\&,
correctly.
Archives created on another architecture and converted on the target
machine may have members with incorrect permissions (this has no effect
so long as they remain members of the archive).
