.\" 
.\"									
.\"	Copyright (c) 1987,1988,1989,1990,1991,1992   AT&T		
.\"			All Rights Reserved				
.\"									
.\"	  THIS IS UNPUBLISHED PROPRIETARY SOURCE CODE OF AT&T.		
.\"	    The copyright notice above does not evidence any		
.\"	   actual or intended publication of such source code.		
.\"									
.\" 
.ds N \fIWE\fR-32001 processor module	
.ds p m32
.ds P M32
.ds l libc.a
.SA 1
.ds ZZ APPLICATION DEVELOPMENT PACKAGE
.TH \*PDIS 1
.SH NAME
\*pdis \- \*N disassembler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*pdis
.RB [ \-o ]
.RB [ \-V ]
.RB [ \-L ]
.RB [ \-d " sec]"
.RB [ \-da " sec ]"
.RB [ \-F " function]"
.RB [ \-t " sec]"
.RB [ \-l " string]"
files
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.I \*pdis
command
produces an assembly language listing
of each of its
object
.IR file
arguments.
The listing includes
assembly
statements
and the binary that
produced those statements.
.PP
The following \fIoptions\fP are
interpreted by the disassembler and may be specified in any order.
.PP
.TP 12
.B \-o
Will print numbers in octal.
Default is hexadecimal.
.PP
.TP 12
.B \-V
Version number of the disassembler will be written to standard error.
.PP
.TP 12
.B \-L
Invokes a lookup of C source labels in the symbol table for
subsequent printing.
.PP
.TP 12
.BR \-d " sec"
Disassembles the 
named section as data,
printing the offset of
the data from the
beginning of the section.
.PP
.TP 12
.BR \-da " sec"
Disassembles the 
named section as data,
printing the actual 
address of the data.
.PP
.TP 12
.BR \-F " function"
Disassembles single
named functions
in each object file
that is specified
on the command line.
.PP
.TP 12
.BR \-t " sec"
Disassembles the
named section as text.
.PP
.TP 12
.BR \-1 " string"
Will disassemble the
library file specified
as
.IR string .
For example,
one would issue the
command:
.sp
.ce
.ft CM
\*pdis \-l x \-l z
.sp
.ft R
to disassemble
.B libx.a
and
.B libz.a\c
\&.
On the 3B20 and VAX computers all libraries
are assumed to be in
.BR $DMD/m32/lib .
On the 3B2 and 3B5 computers the libraries are assumed to be in
.BR /lib .
.DT
.br
.PP
If the
.BR \-d ,
.B \-da
or
.BR \-t
options are specified,
only those named
sections from each
user supplied file name
will be disassembled.
Otherwise, all sections
containing text will
be disassembled.
.PP
If the
.BR \-F
option is specified,
only those named 
functions from each
user supplied file name
will be disassembled.
.PP
On output, a number enclosed in brackets
at the beginning of a line,
such as 
.BR [5] ,
represents that the C breakpointable line number,
starts with the following instruction.
An expression such as
.B <40>
in the operand field,
following a relative displacement
for control transfer instructions,
is the computed address
within the section to which
control will be transferred.
A C function name
will appear in the first column,
followed by
.BR (\|) .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\*pas(1),
\*pcc(1),
\*pld(1).
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
The self explanatory diagnostics
indicate errors in
the command line or problems
encountered with the
specified files.
