.\" 
.\"									
.\"	Copyright (c) 1987,1988,1989,1990,1991,1992   AT&T		
.\"			All Rights Reserved				
.\"									
.\"	  THIS IS UNPUBLISHED PROPRIETARY SOURCE CODE OF AT&T.		
.\"	    The copyright notice above does not evidence any		
.\"	   actual or intended publication of such source code.		
.\"									
.\" 
.if 'm32'' \{\
.ds N 3B20S
.ds p 
.ds P 
.ds l libc.a\}
.ds ZZ APPLICATION DEVELOPMENT PACKAGE
.TH M32NM 1
.SH NAME
m32nm \-print name list of \f2WE\f1-32001 object file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nr A 1
.if 'm32'u3b' .nr A 0
.B m32nm
[
.B \-o
|
.B \-x
|
.B \-d
]
.RB [ \-v ]
.RB [ \-n ]
.RB [ \-e ]
.if \nA .RB [ \-a ]
.RB [ \-f ]
.RB [ \-u ]
.RB [ \-V ]
file-name
.B . \|. \|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I m32nm
command displays the symbol table of each
\f2WE\f1-32001 object file
.IR file-name .
.I File-name
may be a relocatable or absolute \f2WE\f1-32001 object file
or it may be an archive of such \f2WE\f1-32001 object files.
For each symbol, the following information will be printed:
.PP
.TP 9
.B Name
The name of the symbol.
.TP 9
.B Value
Its value expressed as an offset or an an address
depending on its storage class.
.TP 9
.B Class
Its storage class.
.nr C 1
.if 'm32'n3b' .nr C 0
.if 'm32'm32' .nr C 0
.if \nC \{\
.TP 9
.BR Tv
If the symbol is accessed through a transfer vector then this field contains
``tv''.
\}
.TP 9
.B Type
Its type and derived type.
If the symbol is an instance of a structure or of a union then the structure
or union tag will be given following the type (e.g., struct-tag).
If the symbol is an array, then the array dimensions will be given 
following the type (e.g.,
.BR char[ n ][ m ] ).
.TP 9
.B Size
Its size in bytes, if available.
.TP 9
.B Line
The source line number at which it is defined, if available.
.TP 9
.B Section
For storage classes static and external,
the object file section containing the symbol.
.DT
.br
.PP
The output of
.I m32nm
may be controlled using the following flags:
.PP
.TP 9
\-h
A symbol's value and size will be printed in hexadecimal (default).
.TP 9
\-d
A symbol's value and size will be printed in decimal instead of hexadecimal.
.TP 9
.B \-o
A symbol's value and size will be printed in octal instead of hexadecimal.
.PP
.TP 9
.B \-v
External symbols will be sorted by value before they are printed.
.PP
.TP 9
.B \-n
External symbols will be sorted by name before they are printed.
.PP
.TP 9
.B \-e
Only static and external symbols are printed.
.PP
.ie \nA \{\
.TP 9
.B \-a
Full output is produced. Redundant symbols (.text, .data, and .bss),
normally suppressed, are printed.
.PP
.TP 9
.B \-f
``Fancy'' output is produced; that is, the symbol table information
is post-processed to reflect the block structure of the source code.
.PP
'br\}
.el \{\
.TP 9
.B \-f
Full output is produced. Redundant symbols (.text, .data, and .bss),
normally suppressed, are printed.
.PP
'br\}
.TP 9
.B \-u
Only undefined symbols are printed.
.PP
.TP 9
.B \-V
Version of \f2m32nm\f1 command executing.
.DT
.br
.PP
Flags may be used in any order, either singly or in combination,
and may appear anywhere in the command line.
Therefore, both 
.sp
.ce
.ft CM
m32nm name \-e \-v
.ft R
.sp
and
.sp
.ce
.ft CM
m32nm \-ve name
.sp
.ft R
print the static and external symbols in
.IR name ,
with external symbols sorted by value.
.SH "FILES"
/usr/tmp/nm??????
.SH "SEE ALSO"
m32as(1),
m32cc(1),
m32ld(1).
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
.TP 9
``m32nm:  name:  cannot open''
if
.I name
cannot be read.
.PP
.TP 9
``m32nm:  name:  bad magic''
if
.I name
is not a \f2WE\f1-32001 object file.
.PP
.TP 9
``m32nm:  name:  no symbols''
if the symbols have been stripped from
.IR name .
