.\" 
.\"									
.\"	Copyright (c) 1987,1988,1989,1990,1991,1992   AT&T		
.\"			All Rights Reserved				
.\"									
.\"	  THIS IS UNPUBLISHED PROPRIETARY SOURCE CODE OF AT&T.		
.\"	    The copyright notice above does not evidence any		
.\"	   actual or intended publication of such source code.		
.\"									
.\" 
.ds N \fIWE\fR-32001 processor module
.ds p m32
.ds P M32
.ds l libc.a
.SA 1
.if '\*p'' \{\
.ds N 3B20S
.ds p 
.ds P 
.ds l libc.a\}
.ds ZZ APPLICATION DEVELOPMENT PACKAGE
.TH \*PSTRIP 1
.SH NAME
\*pstrip \- strip symbol and line number information from \*N object file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*pstrip
.RB [ \-l ]
.RB [ \-x ]
.RB [ \-r ]
.RB [ -V ]
file-names
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.I \*pstrip
command
strips the symbol table and line number information from
\*N object files,
including archives.
Once this has been done, no symbolic debugging access
will be available for that file; therefore, this command is
normally run only on production modules that have
been debugged and tested.
.PP
The amount of information stripped from the symbol table
can be controlled by using the following options:
.PP
.TP 9
.BR \-l
Strip line number information only;
do not strip any symbol table information.
.PP
.TP 9
.B \-x
Do not strip static or external symbol information.
.PP
.TP 9
.B \-r
Reset the relocation indices into the symbol table.
.PP
.TP 9
.B \-V
Version of \*pstrip command executing.
.DT
.br
.PP
If there are any relocation entries in the object file and any symbol
table information is to be stripped,
.I \*pstrip
will complain and terminate without stripping
.I file-name
unless the
.B \-r
flag is used.
.PP
The purpose of this command is to reduce the file storage
overhead taken by the object file.
.SH "FILES"
/usr/tmp/\*pstr??????
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\*pas(1),
\*pcc(1),
\*pld(1).
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
.TP 15
``\*pstrip:  name:  cannot open''
.br
	if
.I name
cannot be read.
.PP
.TP 15
``\*pstrip:  name:  bad magic'' 
.br
	if
.I name
is not a \*N object file.
.bp
.TP 15
``\*pstrip:  name:  relocation entries present; cannot strip'' 
.br
	if
.I name
contains relocation entries, the
.B \-r 
flag not used
and any symbol table information was to be stripped.
